greetings once again one at all Laszlo
Montgomery here with another China
history podcast today we're going to try
and finish the 14 years of Wong Long's
reign during the Shang Dynasty and then
all 197 years of the Eastern or later
Han that will bring the Han Dynasty to
an end and then in the next podcast
we'll continue on and look at the Three
Kingdoms period we left off last time
with Wang ma taking over from The Last
Emperor PD who came to the throne in
October of 1 BC King Dee dies in
February 6 ad did Wang mang heaven
killed some say yes some say no in any
case if this Emperor was nefariously
done in he wouldn't have been the first
and for sure not the last Wang ma some
liked him and said he was a competent
official and later Emperor some didn't
take to him so kindly and you have both
ends of the spectrum as far as what
history has handed down to us about him
he certainly lived in controversial
times and he ran into his first
controversy immediately when it came to
picking the successor to the deceased
ping Dee what to do if he picked a
competent heir the right age and all
then his days as regent would be over
and with that so with his career if he
picked a child's than at once the
imperial family and all their relatives
hangers-on and high up officials would
point a finger at him and cry foul it
had been over a century and a half since
Empress knew usurped power for her Liu
clan by putting minors on the throne to
rule through but the memory still
lingered and wong mong had to consider
his options carefully so wang mang chose
Leo ye the great great grandson of the
Emperor Shen who died in 49 BC also he
faced some early opposition from those
who knew exactly what Wang maan was up
to ultimately he prevailed thanks to his
political survival skills clever use of
propaganda and the help of his
formidable and long-lasting aunt who was
the grand Empress Dowager after all the
Han Dynasty had clearly been in decline
and the good old days under God - Wendy
jingtian
Rudy were long gone hang moody had been
dead for almost a hundred years anyone
could see the Mandate of Heaven had
clearly shifted so Wang Mong decided
that he was going to be the main man
January 10th 9 ad Wang Mong goes for the
gold and declares an official end to the
Han Dynasty
he then proclaims himself as the new
emperor under a new dynasty called the
Xin dynasty Shing means new the new
dynasty the Han Nobles didn't like this
of course and rose up against Wang bong
but they were all outmaneuvered and
reduced being commoners by 10 ad Wang
mang was firmly in control he kept the
capital at Chung hun over the next 14
years
Wang Mong a dyed-in-the-wool Confucian
tried to rule justly and virtuously and
attempted to become a champion of the
peasants who in the first decade of anno
domini were not faring too well there's
nothing like a little wealth
redistribution to make you popular with
the peasants land was massively
redistributed from landlords to peasants
grain was confiscated by the state and
sold at equitable prices to the peasants
from state-owned granaries like Chairman
Mao did in the 1950s land was taken from
the landlord's broken up and passed on
to the peasants an income tax was
enacted they had attempted to make the
tax burden more fair or less fair
depending on whether you were a HAP or a
have-nots some have called Wan Mong
China's first socialist leader the
entirety of his reign was filled with
controversy and there was deception
after deception perpetrated in order to
boost Wan mungs legitimacy but history
is always written by the victors isn't
it he was ultimately overthrown and
rather than go down in history as a
great reformer or at least someone who
attempted real reform he ends it up as
the great usurper it's no secret that
many of his reforms were simply populist
and introduced merely to enhance his
power and in the
and messing with the established system
of the time whether you liked it or not
ended up causing a free-for-all amongst
those loyal to Wang mang who found
themselves with a certain degree of
power and authority and in a perfect
position to take personal advantage of
these reforms by 12 ad Wang Long's
reforms had done more harm than good and
even he had to start backpedaling on
everything besides this the Yellow River
known to occasionally change course
every now and then did so which caused
widespread flooding and havoc China had
been at peace with the shownu's since 51
BC at the price of treating them as
equals but Wang mang came up with a plan
to neutralize them once and for all and
all this did was stir up the pot and
create disorder where there had been
relative peace it wasn't looking good
for Wang bong and if everyone could say
the Mandate of Heaven was shifting this
was the time by 1880 you had a
full-scale peasant uprising so bad had
things become enter the red eyebrows or
the chair may be red eyebrows as their
name suggests had eyebrows that were
painted red they were initially a secret
society operating mostly out of Shandong
and the north of Jang su who grew
rapidly in the wake of all the perhaps
well-intentioned but failed policies of
Wong mom the uprising grew fast and soon
became unstoppable the chair may were
organized and Wang monks forces were not
in addition to the chair May there was
another Center of rebellion in the south
in and around ho Bay in Hebei led by the
Lu lien so bad had times become in China
that there started to be calls for a
restoration of the Han between the chair
may floods and other natural disasters
coupled with incompetency from the Shang
Dynasty generals and the calls for
re-establishment of the Han Dynasty Wang
Mons grand vision for the dynasty he
found it was starting to look dismal
indeed it all came crashing down for
Wang Han
summer of 23 ad at the Battle of Quinn
young the Quinn young church on here the
main sheen army was annihilated once
word of this defeat spread throughout
the land
everyone rose up and in all the chaos
long Hmong was killed decapitated and
his head was stored in the equivalent of
the Imperial archives for 200 years and
so entered his dreams of transforming
Chinese society and creating a perfect
world of Confucian literati ruling
benevolently amidst all this chaos
destruction natural disasters famine and
popular unrest there were two remnants
of the Han Imperial lil family who were
able to take advantage of these trying
times and reassert themselves as the
best possible alternative to all the
misfortune brought about by the
usurpation of Wang mang foremost among
these were the brothers Leo yen and Leo
show and their cousin Li ocean only Leo
show was considered popular in a
competent leader but when the hun was
finally restored in 23 ad it was the
rather unpopular Lee Ocean who was made
Emperor and ruled rather poorly as Han
Geng sure deep he was mainly supported
by the rebel new lean elements it was
sort of inevitable that the rebels would
rally around the house of Leo since they
had ruled previously and had more
legitimacy than other contenders so this
Emperor gung sure well he wasn't any
good and he didn't have the full support
of everyone as there were competing
loyalties divided up between the
brothers Leo yin and Leo show as well
Emperor Han gang sure ended up doing
away with Leo Yin amidst all the strife
and this laughed leo show who was really
the only one who had broad support and
was respected for his leadership
capability emperor gung sure moved the
capital to boyoung and began to take
steps to consolidate power and get
everything in order after what had been
a long period of killing and destruction
but in the end there was immediate
faction with this newly restored Han
Emperor and his sheer incompetence and
how he ran things and while he was
trying to sort things out
Leo show who he had spared well he was
quietly working behind the scenes to
avenge his brother's death at the hands
of this already very unpopular and newly
restored Han Emperor in the meantime
Emperor gunk sure moved the capital back
to China and tried to fill the vacuum
left by the defeat of Wong Mong you've
probably noticed the capital since
earliest times kept moving back and
forth back and forth between Chang An
and law young but clearly he didn't have
the right stuff and those at the
imperial court and those who surrounded
him quickly saw this emperor was clearly
incompetent and surrounded himself with
officials who were extremely abusive of
their positions of power in short order
he had alienated himself from everyone
and it was clear to all that this
Emperor gun sure was not worthy to hold
this position the chair may or read
eyebrows were still around at this time
in 25 AD and Leo sho who had taken a
position given to him by Emperor gong
sure bided his time north of the Yellow
River and waited for the chair may who
were rising up against emperor gang sure
to do their worst and depose this
Emperor he waited for the right moment
amidst all the utter chaos and fighting
between guns forces the term a and other
forces trying to seize control the end
ultimately came for this titular head of
the Dynasty who reigned or sort of
reigned from 23 to 25 AD Leo sho had
declared himself the new Han Emperor in
25 AD he certainly had some legitimacy
as he was directly descended from the
Western Han Emperor Jean Dee who had
ruled a century and a half earlier
during the Golden Age of the Western or
former Han Dynasty amidst the civil war
that was raging Leo show a brilliant
military strategist defeated his various
competitors for power as well as the
extremely unpopular jermay who with
their red eyebrows and all more or less
spent all their energies
pillaging and creating havoc amongst the
populace
it took him till 36 ad before he had
everyone soundly defeated and was able
to begin to consolidate his power he set
the capital up in law young again which
was east of cheong on and thus began the
eastern han dynasty also called the
later hun he set himself up as emperor
guangwu
actually he had already declared himself
emperor in 25 ad but it took till 36 or
37 ad before he was fully in control and
it defeated all his enemies not to
mention the chair may hang wonwoo
reigned until 57 AD
and was succeeded to the throne by one
of his many sons who became emperor Han
Ming deep this Emperor's reign was
clearly defined by the introduction of
Buddhism to China will have a separate
podcast to look at this great event but
in short and perming supposedly had this
dream about a golden man who his
advisors had said was the Buddha of
India a delegation was sent to look into
this and this is how the whole thing
started I won't get into this now but
just know that it was during this period
in history that the ball got rolling as
far as Buddhism spreading to China in
addition to the introduction of Buddhism
in China and its rapid acceptance by
both the imperial court and the people
Emperor Ming's rain along with his son
and successor who reigned as Emperor
Jung assured in what was the Golden Age
of the Eastern Han Dynasty this period
of the second and third Han Emperor's
Ming and Jung was collectively known as
the rule of Ming and Jang or mean
charger this was a period of relative
peace and competent administration in
fact the eastern Han had a good seven
decades before all the signs of the loss
of heavens Mandate started to rear its
ugly head alas all this peace and
relative prosperity of Emperor Jung
didn't last too long the peoples who
inhabited the fringes of the Empire most
notably the Chung people began to revolt
and cause all kinds of disturbances by
the time of Emperor Jung's death and
eighty-eight
things were starting to fall apart again
for the haand
however there were still 132 years to go
yet before the Eastern Han fell during
this period the eunuchs came into their
own and went from being castrati charged
with guarding the Royal harem to actual
participators in the daily
administration of the palace for the
last century of the Eastern Han period
they earned their well-deserved
reputation from hereon after as
self-serving meddlers and manipulators
of Emperor's and for certain we'll take
a nice long look at the history of the
eunuchs and the rules they played in
Chinese history by 143 the government
was in complete disarray and the
Treasury through a series of disastrous
policies was more or less depleted in
153 there was a locust infestation that
had disastrous consequences and led to
widespread suffering to add to this the
Yellow River had yet another one of its
uncontrollable floods by 184 was all
over for the eastern Han the remainder
of this dynastic period was one of
uprisings and gradual decay foremost
among these uprisings was the Yellow
Turban rebellion or one ginger one the
Emperor at this time was Han Lee Dee who
was the great-great grandson of Emperor
Jung who reigned during that brief
Golden Age of the eastern Han during
this time of Emperor Lee the eunuchs
were thoroughly in charge of affairs at
the palace and were doing their worst
like the Pope's in Rome would do
hundreds of years later to raise funds
and Burling sold offices in the
government which led to a massive influx
of corrupting self-serving officials who
took matters of state from bad to worse
on top of this Emperor Ling was himself
essentially corrupt and exceptionally
wasteful even amidst a financial crisis
he was the wrong man at the wrong time
and from this point on things began to
fall apart rapidly and the groundwork
was being laid for the period that
followed the eastern Han the period of
the three kingdoms
immortalized in the great literary
masterpiece sango yayyy
the sanggojae E or the romance of the
three kingdoms which we'll look at in
the next podcast opens up with the
Yellow Turban rebellion while the chair
may were characterized by their red
colored eyebrows the yellow turbans were
these yellow colored scarves around
their heads essentially this was a
peasant rebellion as I mentioned you had
locusts and floods that make things
impossible for the peasantry the
imperial court offered little or no
relief except to raise taxes conscript
men to build fortifications along the
Silk Road and increase the general
misery of the populace the yellow
turbans were led by the Taoist sorcerer
Changjo and his two brothers John Paul
and John Young they caused no small
amount of grief for the hun central
authority or what was left of it three
great military men were called in to
defend the eastern Han against these
forces enter Leo Baeck alto and swing
Jim it took until 2:05 to put this
rebellion down by this time the eastern
Han was in shambles and in no position
to rule Emperor Ling had died in 189 and
there was the usual messy succession
with competing forces vying for the
throne
these military commanders were called in
to deal with the rebellion of the yellow
turbans these military commanders who
were called in to deal with the
rebellion of the yellow turbans seeing
the state of the Han Empire never
disbanded and each took advantage of the
power vacuum to consolidate their power
in their respective lands the eunuchs
figured prominently during this time
immediately after and furlings death you
had what was known as the ten attendants
or the sure Chong shirt these were ten
eunuchs who collectively usurped power
to run the government what followed was
a massive amount of intrigue as these
ten attendants and their allies and
proxies battled for control of the
throne against the palace forces who
were trying to do away with them led by
the main general
Jing and Ewan sha
Jean was the elder half-brother of
Empress Dowager cook the surviving
consort of the deceased Emperor Ling
hood Jean and Empress Dowager cook
collectively took control of the eastern
Han upon the death of Emperor Lee who
Jean began to move against the eunuch
faction who called the powerful warlord
dong draw to the capital in law yang to
deal with the eunuch faction but the
eunuchs were no pushover and ultimately
before dong Zhuo arrived at the capital
well they made fast work of her Jean and
he was beheaded in 189 I can't emphasize
enough how chaotic things were by this
time the Emperor who survived handling
Dee named Emperor Shah was a mere boy in
fact short-lived Emperor's who were
children and who were quickly deposed
and never ruled were often named Emperor
Shah there's a lot of emperor shawls in
Chinese history shall simply means few
young or small so you had quite a few of
these small Emperor's who were put in
power only to meet some kind of bad
ending being the pawns of whoever the
losing faction was your enshou was able
to successfully move against these
palace eunuchs and killed most of them
some escaped the massacre and took the
boy Emperor Shah and crown prince xie
hostage this didn't work out for the
eunuchs involved in this plot they ended
up having to later commit suicide don't
draw who had a well deserved reputation
for not following orders and being
rather ruthless and self-serving arrived
at the capital and had both the Empress
Dowager and the young Emperor Shah
killed he installed Prince Xie as the
new emperor and used him as a puppet to
rule through in 190 UN Shah marshaled
the forces to defeat dong-chul in-law
young dong therap and picked up and
moved the capital back to chung on but
not before thrashing law Jung before he
left
but dong zhuo's luck ran out and he
himself ended up getting assassinated in
a plot in 192 the former Crown Prince
who now ruled as Emperor shin was
fought over by competing factions
for his usefulness as a puppet by 196 he
became the puppet of the northern
warlord salto it's how tried to unify
the Empire under his rule issuing
various edicts through the puppet
Emperor Shin hee at the north under
control by 207 having defeated these
superior forces of your enshou but in
trying to bring the south into the fold
he had to nemec's in the form of
warlords Lee obey and swim tren by 208
Salta was named the Imperial Chancellor
of Han technically serving under his
puppet emperor shin in that same year he
made his move against the south against
Lee obey and swim Chen now we're gonna
come back again on another day and look
closely at Sol's how he is one of the
most colorful and beloved characters
from Chinese history in addition to
founding one of the three kingdoms that
survived the eastern Han he is
remembered for his legacy as a poet for
his skills as a martial artist and for
the many writings he left behind we'll
save this for another time and just give
a general overview of his role in this
very complicated but fascinating time in
Chinese history now if this is starting
to sound complicated it is I'm really
glossing over so many details and
leaving out so many characters and
events this time is a real favorite for
a lot of these Chinese serial dramas and
movies where the eastern Han was fading
and the dynasty was transitioning to the
Three Kingdoms period it's a time of
incredible complexity with so many
historical figures and events it was a
time of great intrigue shifting
alliances and endless battles in the
winter of 208 209 this was the time of
the big showdown between salchow and the
Allies Leo Bei and Sun Chen this was the
epic battle of red cliffs or chair
beecher Jang in modern who Bay on the
Yangtze River
if the numerically superior army of
salts how could defeat the southern
forces of Leo
and Sun Tran he could then reunite the
north and the south of the country under
his rule of course and bring an end to
the decay that had defined the Eastern
hung at this time everything started off
well for itself he scored a great
victory against Leo Bay at the Battle of
Chang bond it was actually after this
defeat that Leo Bay formed the alliance
with Sun Chen to jointly defend against
South Saul's army the Battle of Red
Cliffs was where the showdown took place
now there was a movie made of this great
battle named Red Cliff or sure be it was
directed by John Woo who is one of the
most famous and renowned directors in
Asian cinema especially for his action
films he directed face off with Nicolas
Cage and John Travolta if you remember
that one he also did the second Mission
Impossible film and Windtalkers as well
as paycheck with Ben Affleck and uma
Thurman these were his principal
contributions to Hollywood but it's his
Chinese films that have really
established his greatness in cinema and
maybe his magnum opus was his movie of
the Battle of Red Cliffs that was
released in two parts in 2008 and 2009
since it was so long over four hours in
length the reason I'm telling you this
is because it's a little difficult to
encapsulate the whole battle and a
couple paragraphs of this podcast so let
me just cut to the chase and encourage
anyone who loves Chinese cinema and who
would like to get absolutely smothered
in details about every character from
this historical moment in history and
every skirmish that happened to go out
and rent or buy this epic masterpiece
it's in Chinese with subtitles the
Battle of red cliffs could be summed up
perhaps and saying that Sal Tao did not
emerge victorious and through a
combination of wrong strategy bad luck
and a brilliant ruse by the ally General
Huang guy ha ha with as much greater
numbers greatly overestimated his
strength he was also the visiting team
so to speak as his support base was in
the north and by venturing down to the
yong-su he was not as familiar with the
Territorian
lack the sympathies of the inhabitants
there the initial battle which happened
at Red Cliffs went poorly for salchow
and his army which by now was not in the
best of shape having had to march
hundreds and hundreds of miles and
unfamiliar territory in poor conditions
so they battle at Red Cliff and salto
ends up retreating to a place called
Wulin not too far away to the north of
the yang sir Lee obey and swim trends
combine forces retreated to the south of
the river and they faced off on opposite
sides Hall's house Navy was moored along
the north bank of the Yangtze
he had made a strategic blunder of tying
all his ships together into one single
line why he did this is uncertain swim
trends most brilliant commanders were
Jolie and Huang Chi Quan guy took one
look at this situation and came up with
the idea of preparing a ruse that leads
how it's how to believe they were gonna
surrender or defect to his side the
story goes that when one guy brought his
plan to his immediate superior Jolie it
is said that they both had thought up
the same strategy simultaneously this
strategy called for one guy to send word
to salto that he and his army were
defecting salto fell for it as one guy
started to sail his navy across the
Yang's ax towards salt Saul's Navy all
tied together in a single row of ships
Sal Tao was already beginning to taste
victory but as soon as they got within a
short distance wine guy launched the
plan that he enjoyed you had both come
up with in fact the ships were not
filled with defecting soldiers but
instead massive amounts of kindling and
other highly flammable substances the
ships were set ablaze at the perfect
time and in no time at all they were
bearing down and Sal's house fleet well
has one guy ships which were now ablaze
bore down on Sal's house helpless Navy
the northern general surely knew he had
been outsmarted the plan worked
perfectly and saw how not only had his
Navy destroyed but had to make a hurried
and disaster
retreat all the while being chased by
the forces of Joel you and yo bait the
end result was that Salt's house plans
to unify the south with the north under
his rule were dashed and from this point
forward the country was very much
divided between north and south that's
how it's how retreated back to the north
where his power base was and the allies
Swan and Leo held their domains in the
south in fact after the Battle of Red
Cliffs these three powers dug in to
their respective lands and what came out
of this were three kingdoms salchow
controlled the North Swint ran the south
and yo bay the West Hotel died in the
spring of 220 ad in law young and his
most capable and eldest sons Hoppe took
over from his father now all this time
the Han Emperor shin was still on the
throne he didn't have any power but
nonetheless he still ruled as Emperor
it's how P pretty much forced the
Emperor to abdicate in his favor
and once hun shendi did this Sal P gave
him some honorary title and kicked him
upstairs and then he became the Emperor
wait Neil BAE heard this news and he
then declared himself emperor of his own
kingdom of Shu hun Sun Tran he held out
for a while before deciding what to do
but with the demise of the eastern Han
in 220 from this point in time until
China was unified under the Jin dynasty
in 280 you had what became known as the
Three Kingdoms period forever
immortalized in the great novel Romance
of the Three Kingdoms and subsequently
in a hundred movies
operas TV dramas and even video games
you know in researching this last decade
of the Han Dynasty and all the battles
to fill the power vacuum of the
toothless Han Emperor's I can't
overemphasize how intricate and
complicated is with so many generals and
eunuchs courtiers alliances broken
alliances battles treaties and the like
to read through a history of this period
you really need a program
a scorecard to keep everything straight
if you feel up to it I encourage you to
read this great 14th century work by Luo
Guanzhong which starts off just prior to
the Battle of Red Cliffs and takes you
through till the end when China is
unified again in 280 it's a hundred and
twenty chapters and a thousand
characters who play roles both large and
small in this epic historical novel one
of the four great classical novels of
Chinese literature the other three being
the schwinkle duan gog and home no Hmong
that's the water margin Journey to the
West and dream of the red chamber so we
end this third installment of the Han
Dynasty overview with China now divided
up into three kingdoms of wait or it's
hallway in the north which is of course
led by the family of salt so then you
have the state of Xu Han in the West
mostly in what is now present-day su
chuan
this was the Kingdom of Leo Bay last you
had the kingdom of Swing Wu in the south
and the east of China this was the
kingdom of Swing Tran three kingdoms wei
xu n wu and in the next podcast we will
look at the six decades of this period
and i'm sure you'll be sitting on the
edge of your seats until then to see who
among these three great generals and
their descendents emerges victorious i
haven't even mentioned juga leon yet in
the next podcast i'll introduce you to
this great and beloved historical
personage from ancient China but until
then this is your host and humble
narrator Laszlo Montgomery signing off
from the 38th floor of the Upper House
high above the Marriott Hotel in Pacific
Place in Hong Kong wishing you a fond
farewell until next time feel free
anytime to send me a question or comment
through my website at wwlp.com I'll be
back in lovely Claremont California
Friday night and as I slowly recover
from massive jet lag I'll have plenty of
time between the hours of 2:00 and 6:00
a.m. to write next week's show
take care everyone and I hope you'll
listen in next week to another exciting
episode of the China history podcast